i mean you talked about georgia how with that in mind how do you use when this is like is it something you will bring up try to use as fuel or just markets
I think it's always important when you come so close to promotion,
I wouldn't speak just about Wembley,
but also if you are there and finish a championship with 90 points,
surely you want to be there with automatic promotion.
And each season you are there and it's more like,
yes,
you feel the pain if it's not possible.
And if you play overall really good playoffs.
We played a fantastic two-legs half-final against Norwich.
Pragmatical,
smart,
first game away,
clean sheet,
and then one of our best performances during the whole season,
a second leg at home,
unbelievable atmosphere at Allent Road,
and even in the final,
so we won more or less each and every statistic.
The only statistic that met us,
sadly,
and we didn't win,
was the scoreline,
because I wouldn't say we were the worst side in this final.
Yes,
because that was definitely more effective and perhaps even a bit more experience in using the chances.
If you come so close,
then you want to promote.
And you have to take this also a bit as fuel that the fire is burning and use it as even more motivation to keep going.
And then in the next time of asking,
because it makes no sense right now to dwell on it and to think,
oh,
we were so close and have done so well and would have deserved perhaps also to promote.
with all the odds that were in our ways um no it's when when there is a little setback although you perhaps don't deserve it then it's important that you invest even more and work even more consistent and more concentrated on more focus and
even harder and this is what we're trying to do so obviously the final but but in general the whole season we'll use it in order in order yes to to to to focus our
everyday work even a bit more and then hopefully also with the outcome that you all wish for.
And your experience in Germany,
even when you were practicing at the end of the season,
do you feel like you still learn something?
Yes,
to be honest,
if you think you don't have to learn anymore,
then please retire as a manager because then you're not good enough anymore.
So I'm there each and every day with...
hundreds of decisions,
which exercise and training,
which line-up,
what do we do,
how the next speech,
the next preparation,
whatever.
And believe me,
each and every day there was mistakes in my decisions and I always reflect this and try to be better the next day and try to improve and to learn because football is also fluent.
I spoke a lot about you always want to be ahead of the wave and for that you also have to be aware.
What can you do differently?
How can you surprise the opponent?
How can you be even better in your positioning?
My football looks also different to what it was six,
seven,
eight years ago.
So hopefully
I keep improving,
I keep learning,
I keep being self-critical,
and this is more or less my nature.
Once I got the feeling,
no,
I don't do this anymore,
hopefully this is the day when I retire.
You were saying what kind of feeling there is when you see them going into the campaign.
After that playoff final defeat,
obviously it's quite a long time going on.
Did you have to pick the players or find yourself up after such a devastating defeat to go away?
I just wonder what you did to raise spirits?
obviously spent some time in the homeland as well over the summer yes first of all i picked myself up because this is also quite important because i need to lead the group it was not possible the first two or three days because the first two or three days um you you have to you have to work you have to function so because if you dwell in the first two or three days it's
important that you are there already with good leadership and give the right messages and even the first days we started then also to to finalize a bit the planning because it wasn't safe when the
until when the pre-season would start because it's a starting point for the championship campaign.
And also the targets that we had in our head perhaps for potential Premier League return are not realistic anymore.
So the first week was more or less work,
I have to say,
in order to prepare everything for pre-season or at least the first four or five days.
But then I also needed two weeks without me thinking about football.
Yes,
sometimes a telephone call was even necessary.
Perhaps,
for example,
Joe Roden was a topic we wanted to bring in,
it was clear for us the need to do a few telephone calls.
But overall,
I tried to stay a bit away from football,
didn't watch too much of the tournament in Germany,
was not tempted to go.
to some games because I didn't want to see much of football obviously then yes the bigger games when England played and Germany played of of course but not too many games if I'm really honest yes but then after after two weeks of recharging you
already feel well football is sometimes heartbreaking but you also miss a little bit and this is more like this feeling increases from day to day and
If I'm honest,
after two weeks of relaxing and trying to stay awake and trying to stay away from football,
we had two more weeks without training.
And obviously it was still quite more or less relaxed because I could do the work more or less like the weather was nice in the garden and from the sofa at home it was a lot like player watching on the laptop.
telephone calls with our key people with potential new targets preparing also with my coaching stuff already the pre-season finalized the last thing for the training camp so i would say the second part of the summer break was already working but in a quite relaxed mode and then yes first
day back here it's always the best feeling then to smell the grass again and to feel the grass again and to work with the players on the pitch and believe me once you're then standing there was a new group on the pitch
you don't feel the heartbreak anymore.
It's more like,
yeah,
excited,
everyone is there with a smile on their face,
wants to play football,
wants to have a ball.
And right now,
since this moment,
we're working towards the opening day,
obviously on Saturday,
and wanted to make sure that we prepare ourselves in the best possible way to play a successful season.
You always talk,
you're awesome.
Yes,
it's a great league.
Are you happy with that target?
Are you happy to be past this point?
When this club plays in the Championship,
we could sell all our players.
We could ask perhaps
Eddie Gray if he would wear a shirt one more time for the opening day.
I tell you what,
the bookies would have always been a favourite.
This is what we are all about and I don't want to hide behind this factor.
This club is second to none in its fan base.
This club is so big and has so much tradition and everyone wants this club to succeed.
So when you have a look at how many shirts we sell,
how much excitement we create in the whole country and everywhere,
it feels like each and every one of our games will be picked again.
High noon kick-off each and every Saturday in order to be live on telly.
I predicted it will happen,
so we will have strange kick-off times again during the season.
And I'm struggling to complain because it's just like because this club is so full of excitement and everyone who is connected with this club wants this club to succeed and we will always be the bookies'favourite.
And for that,
yes,
I don't want to hide behind the fact,
but I know that we won't be able to talk as to promotion.
just by shirt selling will win promotion or whatever for for this club and this group of players it's even more difficult than for any other club for any other group of players to promote because for each and every of our opponents they
have always the most important game of the season always against us always against it's always the same now when you whatever have a look on on yeah
The capacity of supporters in the away stadiums,
when Stoke plays against other teams,
when Leeds United come in,
the stadium is full,
everyone is excited,
they are all on it,
it's a cup final against them.
You always have to play the most important game for the opponent,
as Leeds United.
They leave their hearts out,
they run more,
they invest more.
They are there with cards and more like then three days later when they are exhausted they play our opponent from promotion anyhow and they can't run anymore.
It's an easy win for them.
But I don't complain about this.
This is what this club is also all about.
I want to work for such a such a club and it's great and for that yeah we have to deal with it.
good thank you thank you very much